[DRAFT] Workflows Docs (#238)
upstash/docs: qstash/workflows/getstarted.mdx

---
title: "Getting Started"
---

**Workflows** is a Durable Execution Engine that is composed of **Qstash** Server and the SDK.

- It allows to break **free of time limitations** of serverless platforms.
- It enables **recovery from partial failures**, with the ability to continue a workflow run from an intermediate step.
- It designed to seamlessly integrate with **your existing infrastructure**. The application code will not be uploaded to QStash.
- It provides **all the power of QStash** while abstracting away the complexities, allowing you to focus on implementing the **essential parts**.

Here is an example how an an endpoint might use our SDK:

```javascript 
import { serve } from "@upstash/qstash/workflow/nextjs";
import { sendEmail, UserQuestionRequest } from "./utils"

export const POST = serve<{userRequest: UserQuestionRequest}>({async context => {

>     await context.sleep("sleepDays" , 3d)

Reviewer: At first glance, the logic of immediately sleeping for 3 days doesn’t make sense to me. A more logical flow might be:

1.	Save the user to the database.
2.	Sleep for the specified duration.
3.	Make the external call and send the email.

WDYT?

Also, for the sleep durations, I noticed you’re using invalid inputs like `3d` or utility functions. Would it be clearer to use seconds directly, like `3 * 24 * 60 * 60`? Since people might copy-paste these code snippets as templates, it would be better to make them directly usable. 

```suggestion
    await context.run("saveUser", async() => {
        await saveUser(userRequest)
    })
    
    await context.sleep("sleepDays" , 3d)
```

    await response = context.call(
      "call open ai",
      "https://api.openai.com/v1/chat/completions",
      "POST",  "Authorization: Bearer $OPENAI_API_KEY",
      {"model": "gpt-3.5-turbo-16k",
        "messages": [{"role": "system", "content": "You are a helpful assistant." },
                     {"role": "user","content": request.question}]}
    )

    await context.run("sendEmail", async() => {
        await sendEmail(userRequest, response)
    })
  }
})
```

> This example is for nextjs, to check all other plaforms and usage examples see [Supported Platforms](/qstash/workflows/platforms/platforms)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example is for Next.js, to check all other plaforms and usage examples see [Supported Platforms](/qstash/workflows/platforms/platforms)
```

- It enables **recovery from partial failures**, with the ability to continue a workflow run from an intermediate step.
- It designed to seamlessly integrate with **your existing infrastructure**. The application code will not be uploaded to QStash.
- It provides **all the power of QStash** while abstracting away the complexities, allowing you to focus on implementing the **essential parts**.

Here is an example how an an endpoint might use our SDK:

```javascript 
import { serve } from "@upstash/qstash/workflow/nextjs";
import { sendEmail, UserQuestionRequest } from "./utils"

export const POST = serve<{userRequest: UserQuestionRequest}>(async context => {
    await context.run("saveUser", async() => {
        await saveUser(userRequest)
    })
    
    await context.sleep("sleepDays" , 3d)

    await response = context.call(
      "call open ai",
      "https://api.openai.com/v1/chat/completions",
      "POST",  "Authorization: Bearer $OPENAI_API_KEY",
      {"model": "gpt-3.5-turbo-16k",
        "messages": [{"role": "system", "content": "You are a helpful assistant." },
                     {"role": "user","content": request.question}]}

>     )

Reviewer 2: I did not. We should not be doing base64 encode but I will try.
